and this makes other videos I'd like to
tell you about the problem called
anomaly detection this is a reasonably
commonly used type of machine learning
and one of the interesting aspects is
that is mainly fold up as an
unsupervised learning problem but there
are some aspects of it that are also
very similar in to so the supervised
learning problem so what is anomaly
detection to explain it let me use the
motivating example of imagine that
you're a manufacturer of aircraft
engines and let's say that as your
aircraft engines roll off the assembly
line you're doing you know a QA Quality
Assurance testing and that part that
testing you measure features of your
aircraft engine like maybe you measure
the heat generated things are the
vibrations and so on I share some
friends that worked on this problem a
long time ago and these were actually
the source of features that they were
collecting off actual aircraft engines
and so you now have a data set of a x1
through XM if you have manufactured M
aircraft engines and if you plot your
data or maybe it looks like this
so the point across here is one of your
unlabeled examples so the anomaly
detection problem is the following let's
say that on you know the next day you
have a new aircraft engine that rolls
off the assembly line and your new
aircraft engine has some set of features
XS what the anomaly detection problem is
what to know if this aircraft engine is
anomalous in any way in other words we
want to know if maybe this engine should
undergo further testing because the or
even looks like an okay engine and so
it's okay to just ship it to a customer
without further testing so if your new
aircraft engine looks like a point over
there
well you know that looks a lot like the
aircraft engines we've seen before and
so maybe we'll say that it looks okay
whereas if your new aircraft engine if X
test you know where a point that were
all here so this x1 and x2 of the
features of this new example X test
we're all the way out there then we will
call that an
and maybe send that aircraft engine for
further testing before we ship it to a
customer since it looks nothing like
since it was very different than the
rest of the aircraft engines would seem
to fall more formally in the anomaly
detection problem were given some data
sets x1 through XM of examples and we
usually assume that these M examples are
normal or non of non-anomalous examples
and we want an algorithm to tell us if
some new example X test is anomalous the
first we're going to take is that given
this training set given the unlabeled
training set we're going to build a
model for P of X in other words we're
going to build a model for the
probability of X where X are these
features of say aircraft engines and so
having built a model of the property of
X we're then going to say that if for
the new aircraft engine if P of X test
is less than some epsilon then we flag
this as an anomaly so we see a new
engine that you know has very low
probability under our model P of X that
we estimate from the data then we thank
the tsunami whereas if P of X test is
say greater than or equal to some small
threshold then we say that you know K
looks ok and so given the training set
like that plotted here if you build a
model hopefully you will find that
aircraft engines hopefully the model P
of X will say that points that lie you
know somewhere in the middle that's
pretty hard probability less points a
little bit further ELLs have lower
probability points that are even further
I'll have somewhat little probability
and the point that's way out here the
points that appointment is way out there
would be an anomaly
whereas four point that's way in there
right in the middle this would be okay
because P of X right in the middle of
that would be very high because obscene
of all the points in that region here
are some examples of applications of
anomaly detection perhaps the most
common application of anomaly detection
is actually for detection if you have
many users and if each of your users
take different activities you know maybe
on your website or in the physical plant
something you can compute features X I
of the different users activities and
what you can do is build a model to say
you know what is the probability of
different users behaving different ways
what is the probability of a particular
vector of features of a user's behavior
so you know examples of features of a
user's activity may be on the website
would be things like maybe x1 is on how
often does this user login you know x2
maybe the number of webpages visited or
the number of transactions maybe x3 is
you know the number of posts of the
users on the forum a feature export
could be what is the typing speed of the
user and some websites you measure track
that so it was the typing speed of this
user in characters per second and so you
can model P of X based on this sort of
data and finally having multiple X you
can try to identify users that behaving
very strange to your website by checking
which ones have probably of X less than
epsilon and maybe I send the profiles of
those users for further review or demand
the additional identification from those
users or somesuch to gather gains you
know they strange behavior or fraudulent
behavior on your website this sort of
technique will tend to flag to users
behaving unusually or not just the
behavior not just users that may be
behaving fraudulently sort of not just a
a constantly have been stolen or users
they're trying to do funny things or
just find unusual users but this is
actually the technique that is used by
many online websites to sell things to
try
identify users behaving strangely and
then where there might be indicative of
either fortune and behavior or of
computers accounts that have been stolen
another example of anomaly detection is
mini Factory
so already talked about the aircraft
engine thing where we can find unusual
see aircraft engines and send those for
further review the third application
would be monitoring computers in the
data center and actually have some
friends that work on this too so if you
have a lot of machines in a computer
cluster or in a data center you can do
things like compute features of each
machine so maybe some features capturing
you know how much memory use number of
dis accesses CPU load as well as more
complex features like what is the CPU
load on this machine divided by the
amount of network traffic on this
machine then given a data set of how
your computers in your data center
usually behave you can model the
probability of X you can model the
probability of these machines having
different different amounts of memory
use or probably of these machines having
different numbers of dis accesses or
different CPU knows and so on and if you
ever have a machine who is a probably of
X P of X is very small then you know
that machine is behaving unusually and
maybe that machine is about to go down
and you can flag that for review by
system administrator and this is
actually being used today by various
data centers to watch out for unusual
things happening on their machines
so that's anomaly detection in the next
video I'll talk a bit about the Gaussian
distribution and review properties of
the Gaussian probability distribution
and in videos after that we'll apply it
to develop an anomaly detection
algorithm